=========================================================================================================================
3.7. Listing and Acknowledging Alerts - Rackspace Cloud Load Balancers Developer Guide for Service Management  - API v1.0
=========================================================================================================================

INTERNAL - RAX INTERNAL -  INTERNAL - RAX INTERNAL -  INTERNAL - RAX
INTERNAL -  INTERNAL - RAX INTERNAL -  INTERNAL - RAX INTERNAL
-  INTERNAL - RAX INTERNAL -  INTERNAL - RAX INTERNAL -  INTERNAL - RAX
INTERNAL - 

.. rubric:: `  <>`__\ 3.7. Listing and Acknowledging Alerts
   :name: listing-and-acknowledging-alerts
   :class: title

These operations allow users to list all the alerts in the system.
Additional information about the alert can be retrieved by alert id. The
status of the alert can be changed to ``ACKNOWLEDGED`` using the **PUT**
method.

When getting alerts based on account ids, you may specify any number of
accounts as separate query parameters. You may also include the stack
trace with the final query parameter.

Verb
URI
Description
Access Level
**GET**
/management/alerts
Retrieve all alerts, if any.
Support, Service Admin
**GET**
/management/alerts/``alertId``
Retrieve details for the alert.
Support, Service Admin
**GET**
/management/alerts/loadbalancer?id=``loadBalancerId``
Retrieve all alerts, if any, for the specified load balancer.
Support, Service Admin
**GET**
/management/alerts/byloadbalancerids?id=``loadBalancerId``
&id=\ ``loadBalancerId`` &startDate=\ ``2010-12-21T12:32:07-06:00``
&endDate=\ ``2010-12-21T12:36:30-06:00``
Retrieve all alerts, if any, for any specified load balancers.
Support, Service Admin
**GET**
/management/management/alerts/account?account=``accountId``
&account=\ ``accountId`` &startDate=\ ``Date``\ &endDate=\ ``Date``
&showStackTrace=\ ``true``
Retrieve all alerts, if any, for an account.
Support, Service Admin
**GET**
/management/alerts/cluster/``clusterId``
&startDate=\ ``2010-12-21T12:32:07-06:00``
&endDate=\ ``2010-12-21T12:36:30-06:00``
Retrieve all alerts, if any, for any specified cluster.
Support, Service Admin
**PUT**
/management/alerts/``alertId``/acknowledged
Acknowledge alert and change its status to ``ACKNOWLEDGED``.
Support, Service Admin
**GET**
/management/alerts?status=UNACKNOWLEDGED
Retrieve unacknowledged alerts, if any.
Support, Service Admin
**GET**
/management/alerts/atomhopper
Retrieve alerts generated by the Atom Hopper Service.
Support, Service Admin

`  <>`__
**Example 3.18. List Alerts Response: XML**

.. code::  

    <alerts>
       <alert
               id="1"
               accountId="38"
               loadbalancerId="1000"
               messageName="Error updating node"
               status="UNACKNOWLEDGED"
               created="2010-11-23" />
    </alerts>

                    

`  <>`__
**Example 3.19. List Alerts Response: JSON**

.. code::  

    {"alert": [
            {
                "id": 1,
                "accountId": 1234321,
                "loadbalancerId": 121,
                "messageName": "Error updating node",
                "status": "UNACKNOWLEDGED",
                "created": "2010-11-13"
            }
        ]
    }

                    
